core/src/avm2/globals/README.md, before:

# Ruffle AVM2 globals

This directory contains implementations of Flash global
definitions (e.g. `Object`, `flash.geom.Point`, `flash.utils.getDefinitionByName`)

WARNING: Do *not* implement classes by copying their (decompiled) ActionScript
from the Adobe Flash `playerglobal.swf`. This would violate copyright by making
Ruffle re-distribute Adobe's code (and will not even work in general, since
Adobe's `playerglobal.swf` uses native methods that Ruffle doesn't implement).

Currently, globals are implemented in one of two ways:
1) As pure-Rust code in files like `system.rs`. These are normal Rust
   modules, and are used from `core/src/avm2/global.rs`
2) As ActionScript class definitions like `flash/geom/Point.as`.
   These files are automatically compiled into a `playerglobal.swf`
   file at build time, which is included into the final Ruffle binary
   and loaded during player initialization.

In many cases, defining a class in ActionScript results in
code that's much simpler and more readable than if were
defined in Rust.

Flash's `playerglobal.swc` (specifically, its `library.swf`)
cannot be used as a drop-in replacement for our `playerglobal.swf`.
In addition to potential copyright issues around redistributing Flash's `playerglobal.swc`,
many of its classes rely on specific 'native' methods being provided
by the Flash VM, which Ruffle does not implement.

## Compiling

Java must be installed for the build process to complete.

ActionScript classes are processed by the `core/build\_playerglobal`

The tool first uses 'asc.jar'
from the Flex SDK to compile these ActionScript files into
ABC (bytecode). This tool is entirely self-contained, so we can
include in our repository without requiring the entire Flex SDK
to be installed.

The produced ABC files are then combined into the final
`playerglobal.swf` (which is written out into the build directory,
and not checked in to Git).

The `core/build\_playerglobal` tool is automatically run by `core`'s build script
when any of our ActionScript classes are changed.

## Limitations

* Only pure ActionScript classes are currently supported. Classes with
'native' methods are not yet supported.
* 'Special' classes which are loaded early during Ruffle initialization
(e.g. 'Object', 'Function', 'Class') cannot currently
be implemented in 'playerglobal', since Ruffle initializes them in a special
way. However, virtually all classes in the 'flash' package are initialized
in a 'normal' way, and are eligible for implementation in 'playerglobal'

Commit message:

avm2: Use '.stub.as' suffix to indicate stub class
This removes the need for keeping an updating list in
'build_playerglobal', and made things easier for me
when porting classes to ActionScript.

core/src/avm2/globals/README.md, after:

# Ruffle AVM2 globals

This directory contains implementations of Flash global
definitions (e.g. `Object`, `flash.geom.Point`, `flash.utils.getDefinitionByName`)

WARNING: Do *not* implement classes by copying their (decompiled) ActionScript
from the Adobe Flash `playerglobal.swf`. This would violate copyright by making
Ruffle re-distribute Adobe's code (and will not even work in general, since
Adobe's `playerglobal.swf` uses native methods that Ruffle doesn't implement).

Currently, globals are implemented in one of two ways:
1) As pure-Rust code in files like `system.rs`. These are normal Rust
   modules, and are used from `core/src/avm2/global.rs`
2) As ActionScript class definitions like `flash/geom/Point.as`.
   These files are automatically compiled into a `playerglobal.swf`
   file at build time, which is included into the final Ruffle binary
   and loaded during player initialization.

ActionScript files can be marked as 'stubs' by giving them the suffix
'.stub.as' instead of '.as' (e.g. 'Number.stub.as'). Stub classes
can be referenced from other '.as' files, but they will not be included
in the final 'playerglobal.swf'. This is useful when you need to write
a '.as' file that references a class defined in Rust - you can create
a stub class without needing to port the entire pre-existing class
to ActionScript.

In many cases, defining a class in ActionScript results in
code that's much simpler and more readable than if were
defined in Rust.

Flash's `playerglobal.swc` (specifically, its `library.swf`)
cannot be used as a drop-in replacement for our `playerglobal.swf`.
In addition to potential copyright issues around redistributing Flash's `playerglobal.swc`,
many of its classes rely on specific 'native' methods being provided
by the Flash VM, which Ruffle does not implement.

## Compiling

Java must be installed for the build process to complete.

ActionScript classes are processed by the `core/build\_playerglobal`

The tool first uses 'asc.jar'
from the Flex SDK to compile these ActionScript files into
ABC (bytecode). This tool is entirely self-contained, so we can
include in our repository without requiring the entire Flex SDK
to be installed.

The produced ABC files are then combined into the final
`playerglobal.swf` (which is written out into the build directory,
and not checked in to Git).

The `core/build\_playerglobal` tool is automatically run by `core`'s build script
when any of our ActionScript classes are changed.

## Limitations

* Only pure ActionScript classes are currently supported. Classes with
'native' methods are not yet supported.
* 'Special' classes which are loaded early during Ruffle initialization
(e.g. 'Object', 'Function', 'Class') cannot currently
be implemented in 'playerglobal', since Ruffle initializes them in a special
way. However, virtually all classes in the 'flash' package are initialized
in a 'normal' way, and are eligible for implementation in 'playerglobal'
